---
description: Ideas that are currently open for discussion and implementation
---

# Stellar Ideas

There are multiple ideas that seek to improve the functionality, security and usability of the platform. This doc does not seek to offer alternatives to Stellar. Rather, this doc assumes that the base blockchain layer is the same and aims to suggest improvements on top.

* Implementing a Content Management System \(CMS\) on the frontend: Opensolar requires a content management system in order to manage frontend content. The frontend content is divided into the following sub categories:
  * Project content: Project details and content need to be editable by originators and receivers. Currently, this is done by changing parameters through the backend but this needs to be moved to the frontend where people can change content as desired. This would also be supplemented by a design for the editable interface.
  * Developer engine: The developer engine is one of the core pieces of the Opensolar platform. The engine enables developers to specify project details, give proejct quotes and continuously manage infrastructure all from one place. The developer engine should closely work with the backend to communicate project requirements, and should have a clean interface that enables developers to communicate their needs and suggestions.
  * Investor dashboard: Currently, the fields that are displayed on the investor dashboard are fed from a rudimentary backend CMS. This handling should be shifted to the frontend, which defines the structure and content of the page, and passes the same to the backend. Each field on the dashboard must be modeular, and an investor must have the option to add fields from the backend to their dashboards.
  * Receiver dashboard: Like the investor dashboard, the fields that are displayed on the receiver dashboard are fed from a rudimentary CMS fed from the backend. The receiver dashboard has the same requirements as the investor dashboard in addition to the requirement that the teller dashboard be linked or be a part of the receiver dashboard.
  * Admin dashboard: Opensolar has an admin API interface through which admins can perform a variety of functions on the platform. These functions do not have pages on the frontend yet, and designing and developing such a page would be useful for all platform admins. Admins must be able to approve projects, view users on the platform, flag users and projects, etc.
  * Teller dashboard: The teller works in conjunction with the platform, and there is no representation of the data that the teller broadcasts on the frontend. Designing such a page would be useful for developers and receivers to monitor progress on the teller, and view blockchain commitments and state updates that the teller commits. 
* Pausable contracts: The Opensolar contract deployed on AWS has multiple redundancy checks in place but in no event can a platform admin stop its execution once the project flow is in place. This presents problems for debugging because once a project's payback loop is stopped, it can only be started through the backend. As a result, arbitration is harder, and solving critical bugs in production becomes more difficult. This also helps clear some uncertainties on the legal side since the contracts can now be paused and investors can be protected by the platform against losses and fraudulent proejct investments.
* Manually triggered smart contracts: Contrary to pausable smart contracts, a manually trigerred smart contract is when a platform admin can immediately move a project to stage 4 for investment, or to stage 5 after post-investment to start the teller workflow, etc. This is useful in cases when automatic flow breaks or is not necessary since the platform admins have already approved the stage transition earlier. It also helps in cases when the receiver defaults on payments, and the investors together decide to change the terms of investment. For stage transitions like stage 7-8, admins can review stage data and transition stages manually since there is no end project state defined for a project.
* Migrating to a SQL database: Opensolar right now uses boltDB - a key value pair database with limited functionality and room for scalability. Migrating to a SQL  database would help create relations between different entities on the platform \(eg between investors, users and recipients\), help create a good database structure, and be more scalable. PostgreSQL or MySQL would be ideal options to look at for migration since they are designed to be used in production environments.
* Create a new project diagram: The project diagram on the opensolar readme is outdated and does not reflect many of the changes that have since taken place wrt  platform architecture. An updated diagram should also reflect the different entities on the platform, different stages associated, and more. Having a diagram makes it easy for users to understand the structure of Opensolar and Openx, and helps visitors better understand the utility of the platform.
* Create an end project state: Projects on Opensolar do not have an end state currently but it is required to retire projects once they reach stage 8/9 and display the relevant data to investors and recipients on their dashboards. This would also help keep track of how many projects have been completed, and these projects could be displayed in a separate screen similar to the Explore Tab. An extension of this would be handling the hand-off event where the ownership of the solar system changes from the investors to the recipient. This process could be digital, requiring signatures on DocuSign.
* Create your own contract: Right now, the platform uses a predefined smart contract with the project threshold as the only changeable parameter. Having a web based interface for originators and receivers to tweak other parameters and create their own smart contract enables them to come up with new ideas that existing contract creators may not encounter, and ideas that are exclusive to the project they are designing for. This also greatly aids the expansion from solar energy projects to other types of investments since people can define their own conditions, models for investment, etc.
* Data visualization on the frontend: Though multiple data points are available, data is still displayed in a text format on the frontend. Having interactive graphs and enhances the presentation of projects, and helps investors and receivers better understand the status of a project. This should ideally have a focus on the teller dashboard since most of the data from the teller is statistical and might be difficult to grasp for a receiver. The investor dashboard should have grapsh related to the net returns, net amount invested in projects, etc.
* Legal contract templates: Projects on Opensolar require legal contracts to be stored on IPFS, and their hashes to be stored in the "Stage Data" field associated with each stage. Having templates for legal contracts on the frontend \(eg. a docusign iframe\) makes this process easier, and the platform can store the relevant data without much user intervention. It would also enable faster processing of documents, and legal entities could register on the platform and provide these services if the platform achieves traction.
* Integration tests: The platform has unit tests for different modules but there are no integration tests which can test functionality that requires intervention and user action. Integration tests help test the end-end flow of the platform, and changes to code that affect this flow can be easily identified. Integration tests also help catch edge cases and help prevent breaking changes from being merged into the codebase.
* Emulator as a full fledged web interface replacement: The emulator emulates certain functionality of the platform but does not act as a complete replacement to the web interface. The emulator is useful to test functionality of the backend that is not yet present on the frontend. This should be expanded to include the full functions of the backend so users who don't wish to trust a web interface or users who don't want to wait for features to be implement on the frontend can still interact and perform functions within the platform.
* Alternate implementations on other blockchains: Opensolar is built on Stellar right now but there are proposals for building Opensolar on an alternate blockchain ecosystem. This can be done in parallel to Opensolar as is to compare both platforms simultaneously. More details and ideas for these are outlined in the "Alternatives to Stellar" section of the wiki.
* Other language ports: Opensolar and Openx are written in Go but it would be nice to have Javascript or Python ports so people can easily incorporate openx into their applications.
* Have two blockchain architectures in parallel: Along with Stellar, it would be nice to have a layer which supports on chain smart contracts and verification that can occur parallel to assets and financial payments on Stellar. More details and ideas for these are outlined in the "Alternatives to Stellar" section of the wiki.
* Add secondary market: The platform can make use of the Stellar DEX to offer a secondary market to investors who can exchange one type of project assets for the other. Secondary markets can enable the exchange of one project's INVAsset for another's, one project's DebtAsset for another, etc. This greatly helps an investor balance their portfolio with a collection of safe projects, a collection of risky projects, etc. Recipients could also potentially transfer DebtAssets to other asset holders or even a bank in exchange for short term collateral.
* Private investments: Some investors might not want to reveal their investment amounts, or sometimes even their public keys. To obscure investment amounts, an idea is to transact multiple times between the investor and platform, and the net sum of all these transactions would be the investor's investment in the project. TO obscure their public key, they could use transfer funds to the project indirectly, transfer to a one time address possessed by the platform, and link paybacks to a new address they control. This would obscure the trail between an investor and the platform.
* Sidechain implementations on Stellar: There are ideas for Sidechain implementations in Stellar based on ZkVM and other architectures. Having sidechains helps offload transactions and state updates to the sidechain and would improve performance and fee impact of the platform. This is similar to Bitcoin sidechains described in the "Alternatives to Stellar" section.
* Desktop and Mobile Apps: The platform could have desktop and mobile apps that communicate with the backend and seek to serve critical functions like checking balance, monitoring payback, etc. These apps reduce trust placed in the platform, since they are user run. It also helps expand the user base of the platform since entities are no longer required to use the web interface. Mobile Apps also open up potential for mobile device notifications which can be usedto alert receivers to add stablecoin to their account, alert investors on their investment, etc.
* Run own stellar core and horizon instances: Opensolar right now uses services run by the Stellar Development Foundation for interacting with the blockchain. The platform running its own core and horizon instances reduces dependency on the SDF, and might help handle transaction relay problems with SDF's horizon API.
* Investments in other assets: Currently, the platform can only do stablecoin investments in projects. Having XLM investments in projects is easy if the project's threshold is in XLM. The same would apply to having investments in other assets built on Stellar.
* Pilots with other ideas: Currently, Opensolar is targeted at solar energy projects but an alternate implementation with fractional housing, or peer to peer loans helps expand the horizons of openx, and helps tests the utility openx provides for next generation investments.

