# Ideas

There are multiple ideas seeking to improve the functionality, security and usability of Opensolar. This doc does not seek to offer alternatives to Stellar. Rather, this doc aims to suggest improvements on top of Stellar and to other parts of Opensolar. Proposed ideas for alternatives on Stellar can be found in the "Alternatives to Stellar" section.

* **Implementing a Content Management System \(CMS\) on the frontend:** Opensolar requires a content management system in order to manage frontend content. Content is further divided into the following sub categories:
  * **Project content:** Project details and content needs to be editable by originators and receivers. Currently, this is done by changing parameters through the backend but this needs to be moved to the frontend where people can change content as desired. This would also be supplemented by a design for the editable interface which would allow users to easily change data and move things on the frontend.
  * **Developer engine:** The developer engine is one of the core pieces of the Opensolar platform. The engine enables developers to specify project details, give proejct quotes and continuously manage infrastructure. The developer engine should closely work with the backend to communicate project requirements, and should have a clean interface that enables developers to communicate their needs and suggestions.
  * **Investor dashboard:** Currently, the fields displayed on the investor dashboard are fed from a rudimentary backend CMS. This handling should be shifted to the frontend and the frontend should define the structure and content of the page. This should be communicated to the backend through an API endpoint. Each field on the dashboard must be modular, and an investor must have the option to add additional fields to their dashboards.
  * **Receiver dashboard:** Like the investor dashboard, the fields displayed on the receiver dashboard are fed from a rudimentary backend CMS. The receiver dashboard has the same requirements as the investor dashboard and an additional requirement in that the teller dashboard should be linked or be a part of the receiver dashboard. The teller dashboard should have details on the teller like device id, data generation history, mqtt broker credentials, etc. The teller dashboard could also have functionality that enables a recipient to remotely SSH onto the IoT device deployed so they can view what's happening directly. The teller dashboard also ensures good accountability regarding the data generated on the device, and enables project entities to keep track of project progress.
  * **Admin dashboard:** Opensolar has a list of admin API endpoints using which admins can perform a variety of functions on the platform like viewing all pending projects, flagging users and projects, and approving KYC credentials of a user. These functions do not have pages on the frontend yet, and designing and developing such a page would be useful for platform admins. There could exist a separate login page for admins at openx.solar/admin and admins can login and access the admin dashboard without having to navigate through the platform.
* **Pausable contracts:** The Opensolar smart contract on AWS has multiple redundancy checks in place but in no event can a platform admin stop its execution once the project flow is in place. This presents problems for debugging because once a project's payback loop is stopped, it can only be started through the backend. As a result, arbitration is harder, and solving critical bugs in production becomes more difficult. A side consequence is that this presents problems from a legal perspective because the platform's execution can never be stopped, and this causes issues when getting legal approval for the platform. If the contract can be paused \(and not stopped\), it gives additional confidence to investors that the platform can step in if something goes awry and protect investors. This can also protect recipients and developers against malicious entities.
* **Manually triggered smart contracts:** Contrary to pausable smart contracts, a manually trigerred smart contract is when a platform admin can immediately move a project to stage 4 for investment, or to stage 5 after post-investment to start the teller workflow, etc. This is useful in cases when automatic flow breaks or is not necessary since the platform admins have already approved the stage transition earlier. It also helps in cases when the receiver defaults on payments, and the investors together decide to change the terms of investment. For stage transitions like stage 7-8, admins can review stage data and transition stages manually since there is no end project state defined for a project.
* **Migrating to a SQL database:** Opensolar right now uses boltDB - a key value pair database with limited functionality and room for scalability. Migrating to a SQL  database would help create relations between different entities on the platform \(eg between investors, users and recipients\), help create a good database structure, and be more scalable. PostgreSQL or MySQL would be ideal options to look at for migration since they are designed to be used in production environments. This step would require the construction of a suitable database architecture along with scripts that would migrate the current platform storage to the new database.
* **Create a new project diagram:** The project diagram on the opensolar readme is outdated and does not reflect many changes that have taken place wrt  platform architecture through the course of the past year. An updated diagram should reflect the different entities on the platform, different stages associated, how opensolar and openx interact in different places, how stablecoins play a part in the system, and how the project fits within the broader category of open finance. Having a diagram makes it easy for users to understand the structure of Opensolar and Openx, and helps visitors better understand the utility of the platform. It also helps display what the project intends to do in a visual form, making presentationd and explanation easier.
* **Create an end project state:** Currently, projects on Opensolar do not have an end state but it is required to retire projects once they reach stage 8/9 and display relevant data to investors and recipients on their dashboards. This would help keep track of how many projects have been completed and these projects could be displayed in a separate screen similar to the Explore Screen. An extension of this would be handling the hand-off event where the ownership of the solar system changes from the investors to the recipient. This process can be part of the platform, requiring signatures on DocuSign within an iframe. End project states could also be trigerred by the platform admin and notifications can be sent to all project entities.
* **Create your own contract:** Right now, the platform uses a predefined smart contract with the project threshold as the only changeable parameter. Having a web based interface for originators and receivers to tweak other parameters and create their own smart contract enables them to come up with new ideas that existing contract creators may not encounter, and ideas that are exclusive to the project they are requesting funding for. This greatly aids the expansion from solar energy projects to other types of investments since people can define their own conditions. It also helps gives people flexibility while designing various parts of the contract like payback period, investment models and more. Some part of the contract however would be fixed and editable only on the backend or by project admins.
* **Data visualization on the frontend:** Though multiple data points are available for a project, data is still displayed as text on the web interface. Having interactive graphs and  charts enhances the presentation of projects, and helps investors and receivers better understand the status of a project. This should also focus on the teller dashboard since most of the data from the teller is statistical and might be difficult to grasp for a receiver. The investor dashboard should have graphs related to the net returns, net amount invested in projects, etc. The developer dashboard could have information on the status of the teller, the energy generated and have provisions to download detailed logs.
* **Legal contract templates:** Projects on Opensolar require legal contracts to be signed between different entities, like the receiver and developer, the investor and the platform, etc. These contracts are stored on IPFS, and their hashes are stored in the "Stage Data" field associated with each stage. Having templates for legal contracts on the frontend \(eg. a docusign iframe\) makes this process easier, and the platform can store the relevant data without much user intervention. It would also enable faster processing of documents, and legal entities could even register on the platform and provide these services directly. Having a central repo of contract templates also enables other platforms to borrow and adapt these to their application, saving them time and moeny associated with the legal process.
* **Integration tests:** The platform has unit tests for different modules but there are no integration tests which can test functionality that requires intervention and user interaction. Integration tests help test the end-end flow of the platform, and changes to code that affect this flow can be easily identified. Integration tests also help catch edge cases and help prevent breaking changes from being merged into the codebase. Integration tests need not be restricted to Golang, they can be in Python or other languages too. The idea is that they must be able to run on Travis so new Pull Requests to the repo can be thoroughly tested before being merged into the codebase.
* **Emulator as a full fledged web interface replacement:** The emulator emulates certain functionality of the platform but does not act as a complete replacement to the web interface. The emulator is useful to test functionality of the backend that is not yet present on the frontend. This should be expanded to include the full functions of the backend so users who don't want to trust a web interface or users who don't want to wait for features to be implement on the frontend can still interact and perform functions within the platform.
* **Alternate implementations on other blockchains:** Opensolar is built on Stellar currently but there are proposals for building Opensolar on an alternate blockchain ecosystem. This can be done in parallel to Opensolar as is to compare both platforms simultaneously. More details and ideas for these are outlined in the "Alternatives to Stellar" section of the wiki.
* **Other language ports:** Opensolar and Openx are written in Go but it would be nice to have Javascript or Python ports so people can easily incorporate openx into their applications. Having an npm package or a pip repo is extremely useful to both import functionality, and to test auxiliary features that are better available in thee languages.
* **Have two blockchain architectures in parallel:** Along with Stellar, it would be nice to have a layer which can supports on chain smart contracts and verification that exists in parallel to assets and financial payments on Stellar. More details and ideas for these are outlined in the "Alternatives to Stellar" section of the wiki.
* **Add secondary market:** The platform can make use of the Stellar DEX to offer a secondary market to investors who can exchange one type of project assets for the other. Secondary markets can enable the exchange of one project's INVAsset for another's and one project's DebtAsset for another. This greatly helps an investor balance their portfolio with a collection of safe projects, a collection of risky projects, etc. Recipients could also potentially transfer DebtAssets to other asset holders or even a bank in exchange for short term collateral. This would help bring in investors who couldn't invest when the project was in a stage for investment but want to do so. Investors who wish to exit Opensolar could easily do so by selling their assets to these investors.
* **Private investments:** Some investors might not want to reveal their investment amounts, or sometimes even their public keys. To obscure investment amounts, an idea is to transact multiple times between the investor and platform, and the net sum of all these transactions would be the investor's investment in the project. To obscure their public key, they could use transfer funds to the project indirectly, transfer to a one time address possessed by the platform, and link paybacks to a new address they control. This would obscure the trail between an investor and the platform. 
* **Sidechain implementations on Stellar:** There are ideas for Sidechain implementations in Stellar based on ZkVM and other architectures. Having sidechains helps offload transactions and state updates to the sidechain and would improve performance and fee impact of the platform. This is similar to Bitcoin sidechains described in the "Alternatives to Stellar" section.
* **Desktop and Mobile Apps:** Opensolar can have desktop and mobile apps that communicate with the backend and serve critical functions like checking balance, monitoring paybacks, investing in projects. These apps reduce trust placed in the web interface since they are user run. It also helps expand the user base of the platform since entities are no longer required to use the web interface. Mobile Apps open up potential for mobile device notifications which can be used to alert receivers to add stablecoin to their account, alert investors on their investment, etc. 
* **Run own stellar core and horizon instances:** Opensolar right now uses services run by the Stellar Development Foundation for interacting with the blockchain. The platform running its own core and horizon instances reduces dependency on the SDF, and might help handle transaction relay problems with SDF's horizon API. This however, doesnt solve problems with the consensus protocol that make Stellar centralised, as outlined in the "Alternatives to Stellar" doc.
* **Investments using other assets:** Currently, the platform can only do stablecoin investments in projects. Having XLM investments in projects is easy if the project's threshold is in XLM. Investing using other assets on Stellar would also be useful to expand the reach of the platform
* **Pilots with other ideas:** Currently, Opensolar is targeted at solar energy projects but an alternate implementation with fractional housing, or peer to peer loans helps expand the horizons of openx, and helps tests the utility openx provides for next generation investments. Opensolar used to house a fractional owenrship Proof of Concept in the repo before but that has now been abandoned due to a lack of progress from the receiver.
* **Docker Images of Openx, Opensolar and Teller:** Docker images for the different pieces of architecture will be nice to have since this enables a person to easily download and run them locally. This also removes the need for configuring different instances on different Operating systems.

