# Content Management System

**Implementing a Content Management System \(CMS\) on the frontend:** Opensolar requires a content management system in order to manage frontend content. Content is further divided into the following sub categories:

* **Project content:** Project details and content needs to be editable by originators and receivers. Currently, this is done by changing parameters on the backend but this needs to be moved to the frontend where people can change content as desired. This would also be supplemented by a design for the editable interface which would allow users to easily change data and move things on the frontend.
* **Developer engine:** The developer engine is one of the core pieces of the Opensolar platform. The engine enables developers to specify project details, give project quotes and continuously manage infrastructure. The developer engine should closely work with the backend to communicate project requirements, and should have a clean interface that enables developers to communicate their needs and suggestions.
* **Investor dashboard:** Currently, the fields displayed on the investor dashboard are fed from a rudimentary backend CMS. This handling should be shifted to the frontend and the frontend should define the structure and content of the page. This should be communicated to the backend through an API endpoint. Each field on the dashboard must be modular, and an investor must have the option to add additional fields to their dashboards.
* **Receiver dashboard:** Like the investor dashboard, the fields displayed on the receiver dashboard are fed from a rudimentary backend CMS. The receiver dashboard has the same requirements as the investor dashboard and an additional requirement in that the teller dashboard should be linked or be a part of the receiver dashboard. The teller dashboard should have details on the teller like device id, data generation history, mqtt broker credentials, etc. The teller dashboard could also have functionality that enables a recipient to remotely SSH onto the IoT device deployed so they can view what's happening directly. The teller dashboard also ensures good accountability regarding the data generated on the device, and enables project entities to keep track of project progress.
* **Admin dashboard:** Opensolar has a list of admin API endpoints using which admins can perform a variety of functions on the platform like viewing all pending projects, flagging users and projects, and approving KYC credentials of a user. These functions do not have pages on the frontend yet, and designing and developing such a page would be useful for platform admins. There could exist a separate login page for admins at openx.solar/admin and admins can login and access the admin dashboard without having to navigate through the platform.

