---
description: A section describing opensolar and its different components
---

# About

### Introduction

Opensolar is a platform built using the Stellar blockchain that enables investments in solar infrastructure. Opensolar is built on openx, a broader "platform of platforms" architecture for investments in blockchains. Opensolar aims to automate the process of energy production, billing, and asset ownership for the recipient and the process of continual returns for the investor.

Opensolar is designed to be modular and each standalone part can be used in a different application. The core opensolar platform is built on top of openx, a broader "platform of platforms" architecture which can be used for a wide range of investment types.

Opensolar has multiple entities on the platform, each performing its own role:

* **Investors**: Investors invest in projects listed on the platform. Investors can vote on projects they like and on changes to be done after their investment is finalised.
* **Recipients / Receivers**: Receivers with the help of originators list projects that need investment on the platform. Receivers are the beneficiaries of projects listed on Opensolar.
* **Originators**: Originators propose projects that might add value to receivers. They work with receivers to prepare a preliminary project plan that contractors can bid on.
* **Contractors**: Contractors bid on projects within opensolar and give a quote to the receiver based on the requirements specified by the receiver and originator.
* **Developers**: Developers install and maintain projects for the receiver. Developers are paid according to the level of support they can give and the amount of time it takes to install a project.
* **Guarantors**: Guarantors provide a failsafe guarantee for investors against receivers who default on payments.
* **Platform Administrators**: Admins review the listings made on the platform and act as arbiters in case of conflict

Investors and Receivers on Opensolar need to perform KYC to be able to invest in and partake in projects listed on Opensolar. Developers and Contractors need to store key details related to their company on the platform to get approval from investors and receivers. Guarantors need to store their details and sufficient proof of funding to act as a guarantor. If entities need to handle Stablecoin \(AnchorUSD\) through the platform, they must perform KYC on AnchorUSD's website.

Opensolar uses a project based investment model - recipients advertise projects and investors invest in them. These projects are divided into multiple stages:

Stage 1: **Engagement**  
Stage 2: **Quotes**  
Stage 3: **Signing**  
Stage 4: **Investment**  
Stage 5: **Construction**  
Stage 6: **Interconnection**  
Stage 7: **Legacy**  
Stage 8: **Handoff**  
Stage 9: **End of Life**

Each entity performs its role in a set of stages (eg the investor performs its role in stage 4, originators in stage 1). Data associated with a stage \("Stage Data"\) references associated entities' actions \(in the case of investors, the stage data is on the blockchain\). Stage progression is trigerred by a combination of manual and automatic events, the stage data is stored on IPFS \(Inter Planetary File System\), and the IPFS reference hash is stored on the platform for future reference.

Some data is determined by the appropriate entities \(an example is receivers attesting that the project was installed by taking photos on location\) or by oracles who attest to specific statements \(an example is neighbours atteting that the energy rate charged for the month is the same as the receiver claims it is\). This data is combined with other data associated with the stage and committed to IPFS.

Opensolar maintains a small internal database built on boltDB to keep track of entity details project details and more.

Opensolar uses IoT devices for monitoring energy production and stores the data generated by these devices on IPFS. Opensolar uses a piece of software called the teller to read data from the IoT device and trigger the payment conditions on the platform.

Opensolar's investment and payment workflow is regulated by a smart contract run on AWS. This smart contract interfaces with the blockchain, coordinates payments between the receiver and investors, and more.

### Smart Contract

The opensolar smart contract runs on AWS since Stellar does not support on chain smart contracts. It contains the core functionality surrounding investments and payback whereas auxiliary features that handle transactions like asset creation are imported from sub-packages. The smart contract also allows for different investment models which can be defined in a relevant sub package.

### Stellar

Opensolar's smart contract is designed to use the Stellar blockchain, a Proof of Stake blockchain based on the Stellar Consensus Protocol. Stellar follows an account based model of accounting in which balances are associated with a public key \("account" or "address"\) on the blockchain, and subsequent operations increase the balance associated with the address. Stellar provides a set of operations that can be performed globally to change the state of a set of addresses \([https://www.stellar.org/developers/guides/concepts/list-of-operations.html](https://www.stellar.org/developers/guides/concepts/list-of-operations.html)\). The list of operations used by the Opensolar platform are:

* **Create Account**: To create user accounts on the platform
* **Payment**: To move funds between different accounts on the blockchain
* **Buy Offer**: To exchange XLM with other currencies on the Stellar Decentralised Exchange \(DEX\) \(buy\)
* **Sell Offer**: To exchange XLM and other currencies on the Stellar DEX \(sell\)
* **Set Options**: Used to set thresholds for different signers associated with an account. Used for providing multisig and escrow functionality.
* **Change Trust**: Used to change the trust associated with signers associated with an account. Used for providing multisig and escrow functionality.

The issuance of assets is a feature that is useful to replicate the function of a global state variable \([https://www.stellar.org/developers/guides/concepts/assets.html](https://www.stellar.org/developers/guides/concepts/assets.html)\). Each asset has an issuer, who can issue a limited or unlimited amount of assets \(set by the "Set Options" operation noted above\), and a receiver who trusts the issuer for the specific asset\(s\).

Assets are not trustless, and the receiver trusts the issuer for the asset they receive \(an example is a bank - you trust a bank to not give fake currency when withdrawing cash\). A receiver also specifies a limit called the "Trust Limit", which is the maximum amount of assets they can receive from the issuer \(An example is a friend: you may trust your friend to lend 1000 but not 10000\).

In opensolar, two kinds of assets are used. One is to track the amount owed by a receiver and another to track the amount of pending returns associated with an investor. The Investor asset \("INVAsset"\) denoted by a 12 letter code "INVAssetCode" is 1:1 with the amount they invest in the project \(ie if an investor invests $1000 in the platform, they get 1000 INVAssets\). This ratio scales with the risk and stage of investment \(for example, seed investors may get 1:1.3 for the additional risk they take in providing early capital\)

Receivers receive two assets - "DebtAsset" and "PaybackAsset". The Debt Asset is 1:1 with the net returns associated with a project and each time a payment is made towards a project, DebtAssets are transferred from the receiver to the platform's address. The PaybackAsset is used to track the number of months to full ownership of an installed project. It is also transferred from the receiver to the platform's address with each successfully payment made.

The Opensolar platform has its own account on the blockchain and acts as a pre-escrow for projects listed on the platform. When a project doesn't reach its targeted funding goal or is cancelled, the platform has refunds the investors for the amount invested since it acts as a pre-escrow. The platform can also act as an arbiter if project terms change without prior notification to or without approval of investors, and investors raise a claim with the platform.

The platform also acts as one of the signers of a multi-signature escrow account for projects that have been funded, and each time a receiver needs to withdraw funds \(for example, to pay contractors\), they request approval from the platform. To prevent withdrawal delays, the platform signs all transactions by default. But investors can raise a complaint, and an admin can pause the platform's signing capabilities and arbitrate between investors and recipients.

### Teller

Opensolar uses a piece of software called the "Teller" as an interface between the broader functions of the platform and the installed solar energy grid \(a "solar system"\) on site. The teller keeps track of the energy generated by the solar system and automatically pays the platform back each payment interval depending on the energy generated. The amount to be paid each month is evaluated based on standard tariff charged by energy utilities, and a receiver has the optikon of paying back in bi-weekly or monthly instalments.

The teller also performs auxiliary functions. It tracks the device's location, stores the solar system's state on IPFS in regular intervals, stores the associated IPFS hash on the blockchain at regular intervals, and provides functions for a receiver to view the balance and other data associated with a project locally.

The teller communicates with the platform through JSON-RPC APIs. The receiver is required to store their username and password in a config file stored locally which the teller uses to authenticate with the platform. The teller on first initialization, communicates the location of the device to the platform, assigns and communicates a unique device id generated locally, and for every subsequent restart \(if one occurs\), stores its timestamp.

### AnchorUSD

An entity that wishes to transact in USD must load stablecoin on Stellar through AnchorUSD, a USD based stablecoin provider on the Stellar blockchain. A stablecoin is an asset on Stellar that is 1:1 with the USD \(or other assets, as specified by the issuer\). A stablecoin can be used as a replacement to the dollar on the Stellar blockchain, and can be freely transferred from one address to another like any other asset.

AnchorUSD has a set of rules in place for entities who want to transact in its asset. These rules include KYC and AML verification, along with a registration process listed on anchorusd.com.

Both investors and receivers on Opensolar must purchase USD funds from AnchorUSD. A receiver must purchase USD to payback towards a project and an investor must purchase USD to invest in a project.

Note: AnchorUSD is currently limited to the United States, and as a result, receivers and investor locations are restricted to the United States.

### Investments

The opensolar smart contract can support a variety of investment models and uses a munibond model by default. Other models can be framed as packages and imported into the smart contract.

Investors are required to pass a series of checks before being allowed to invest in projects. These checks include KYC and AML checks \(on the platform, not AnchorUSD\), balance checks, and a ban check to see if the user has been banned on the platform. If an investor fails to meet these criteria, they can not invest in projects on Opensolar.

The platform has two modes - Testnet mode and Mainnet mode. On testnet, the platform simulates a stablecoin called STABLEUSD on the Stellar Development Foundation's Test Network. This stablecoin acts as a replacement for AnchorUSD on testnet to test and simulate stablecoin features. Testnet mode uses test lumens to facilitate payments and enable creation of assets. Test lumens are fetched from the Stellar Development Foundation's Testnet Faucet via the Horizon API.

Opensolar uses the Stellar DEX to enable exchange of assets \(example, XLM for USD\). This DEX can be used to provide functions like secondary asset markets where investors can trade INVAssets for USD or similar.

### Web Interface

The web interface of opensolar is built using React.JS and contains a subset of the functions provided by the opensolar backend. It currently provides user profiles, projects that investors can invest in, and dashboards for recipients, investors and developers.

### RPC API

Opensolar performs all of its interactions with the web interface and teller through JSON-RPC APIs. Some endpoints are public and can be called by everyone without needing a token, and other endpoints are restricted, requiring an account on opensolar and a token to call them.

The token can be fetched by POSTing to `/token` with the username and the 512 byte SHA3 hash of the password. This token is valid for 24 hours but callers can generate a new token even if the timeout interval hasn't been reached.

### Solar Infrastructure

The solar infrastructure for Opensolar is composed of multiple parts - Solar Panels, IoT devices which report energy generated to an IoT Hub, and an IoT Hub which records the amount of energy generated during every interval of time defined. Opensolar interfaces with the IoT Hub to collect data on energy consumption and the IoT Hub triggers the conditions defined by the smart contract. ****This is done by running a piece of software called the **Teller** on the IoT Hub.

**Teller**

The teller is an executable that interfaces with the platform to constantly report progress, store energy data on the blockchain, and trigger payments every payment interval. The teller contains information about the recipient and draws funds from the recipient's account to pay back towards the smart contract. The teller also acts as a mini CLI emulator and can be used to query limited information like the amount of money left in the recipient's account and the latest state of the teller from the teller.

**MQTT Broker**

The IoT devices that are linked to the solar panels transmit data using the MQTT protocol. The MQTT protocol requires a transmitter \(in this case the IoT devices linked to the solar panel\), a broker to broadcast the messages received from the transmitter, and a receiver which can connect to the broker and subscribe to messages from the transmitter. The broker can either be run alongside the platform or can be run on the IoT Hub, depending on the energy specifications of the IoT Hub and its capabilities. Opensolar runs an MQTT broker at mqtt.openx.solar which acts as the broker for projects on the opensolar platform.

**Swytch.io**

Swytch.io is a third party provider which generates Renewable Energy Certificates \(RECs\) for each Megawatt of energy generated. A copy of the data sent to mqtt.openx.solar is also sent to Swytch.io to mint RECs. These RECs can be sold by the recipient or investor on secondary markets as defined in the investment contract. Swytch also provides an interactive dashboard where recipients can visualize the amount of energy generated throughout the day and other statistics in graph form.

### Smart Contracts

Opensolar is powered by a collection of smart contracts split across modular parts. The primary contract housed in `contract.go` combines functionality from multiple parts.

### KYC

AnchorUSD requires KYC to be done through its portal. TODO

### Investors

Investors are the primary entities on the opensolar platform. They invest in projects, and get returns from receivers.

### Recipients \(Receivers\)

Receivers of a project are the end-beneficiaries of a project. They are usually school co-op societies, agricultural co-ops, and so on. They are responsible for

1. Creating a project with the help of Originators
2. Receiving quotes for a project with the help of Contractors
3. Installing the project with the help of Developers, and
4. Paying back the Investors for their investment in the project.

A recipient may be single person or a company in charge of a specific society.

### Guarantors

Guarantors provide guarantee to investors against receivers who might default on payments. Guarantors are the equivalent of insurance firms.

### Contractors

Contractors are entities that bid for the right to install projects on behalf of the recipient. They can perform the role of a developer as well.

### Developers

Developers are entities that install the technical requirements of the project. Developers are involved in project installation after contractors.

### Originators

Originators are entities that propose projects capable of receiving investment to recipients.

### Project Stages

An opensolar project is divided into 9 stages ordered chronologically:

Stage 1: **Engagement**  
Stage 2: **Quotes**  
Stage 3: **Signing**  
Stage 4: **Investment**  
Stage 5: **Construction**  
Stage 6: **Interconnection**  
Stage 7: **Legacy**  
Stage 8: **Handoff**  
Stage 9: **End of Life**

Each stage transition is regulated by the smart contract.

### Investment Models

Opensolar aims to support multiple investment models but right now, only one kind of investment \(munibond\) is supported. Others can be added as modular packages and imported into the parent smart contract when required.

### Platform Infrastructure

The opensolar platform and the openx platform of platforms are hosted on separate AWS instances. They communicate with each other through the platform-platform API defined by openx. The platform communicates with the blockchain, MQTT broker, IPFS and other parts  required for opensolar to work as expected.

### Stablecoin

Opensolar makes use of USDx, a representation of the US Dollar on the Stellar blockchain provided by AnchorUSD. Obtaining USDx requires an entity to undergo Know Your Customer \(KYC\) checks performed by AnchorUSD. Once a user completes the required checks, they can buy USDx and exchange USDx for USD on anchorusd.com. An alternate way of obtaining USDx is to use the Stellar DEX.

Recipients are required to go through the same KYC process as required of investors. Once a recipient loads funds into their account and when there is sufficient balance, the smart contract triggers payments. If there is insufficient balance, the platform sends a reminder to the recipient to load funds into their account, and pulls funds form the guarantor if necessary.

